[Serve][Doc] Triton server integration (#41923)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/tutorials/triton-server-integration.md

In our example, we will use a local directory as the model repository to save all the model files.

```bash
model_repo/
├── stable_diffusion
│   ├── 1
│   │   └── model.py
│   └── config.pbtxt
├── text_encoder
│   ├── 1
│   │   └── model.onnx
│   └── config.pbtxt
└── vae
    ├── 1
    │   └── model.plan
    └── config.pbtxt
```

The model repository contains three models: `stable_diffusion`, `text_encoder` and `vae`. Each model has a `config.pbtxt` file and a model file. The `config.pbtxt` file contains the model configuration, which is used to describe the model type and input/output formats. (You can learn more about model config file [here](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/user_guide/model_configuration.md)). To get config files for our example, you can download them from [here](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Conceptual_Guide/Part_6-building_complex_pipelines/model_repository). We use `1` as the version of each model. The model files are saved in the version directory.

## Start Ray Serve with the Triton Server

> Triton Server provides python API to start the Triton Server instance. You can use the `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.12-py3` image which already have the Triton Server python API library installed.

Reviewer: Can we add the complete instructions for how to build an image that has both triton and ray?

Author: done.

(serve-triton-server-integration)=

> # Serving model with Triton Server in Ray Serve

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Serving models with Triton Server in Ray Serve
```

This guide shows how to build an application with stable diffusion model using [NVIDIA Triton Server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server) in Ray Serve.

## Preparation

### Installation

> It is recommended to use the `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.12-py3` image which already have the Triton Server python API library installed, and install the ray serve lib by `pip install "ray[serve]"` inside the image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use the `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:23.12-py3` image which already has the Triton Server python API library installed, and install the ray serve lib by `pip install "ray[serve]"` inside the image.
```

> ### Build Model

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Build and export a model
```

> For this application, the encoder are exported to ONNX format and the stable diffusion model are exported to be TensorRT engine format which is being compatible with Triton Server.
> Here is the example to exporting models to be ONNX format.([source](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/scripts/stable_diffusion/export.py))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this application, the encoder is exported to ONNX format and the stable diffusion model is exported to be TensorRT engine format that is compatible with Triton Server.
Here is the example to export models to in ONNX format.([source](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/blob/main/Triton_Inference_Server_Python_API/scripts/stable_diffusion/export.py))
```

prompt = "Draw a dog"
vae = AutoencoderKL.from_pretrained(
    "CompVis/stable-diffusion-v1-4", subfolder="vae", use_auth_token=True
)

tokenizer = CLIPTokenizer.from_pretrained("openai/clip-vit-large-patch14")
text_encoder = CLIPTextModel.from_pretrained("openai/clip-vit-large-patch14")

vae.forward = vae.decode
torch.onnx.export(
    vae,
    (torch.randn(1, 4, 64, 64), False),
    "vae.onnx",
    input_names=["latent_sample", "return_dict"],
    output_names=["sample"],
    dynamic_axes={
        "latent_sample": {0: "batch", 1: "channels", 2: "height", 3: "width"},
    },
    do_constant_folding=True,
    opset_version=14,
)

text_input = tokenizer(
    prompt,
    padding="max_length",
    max_length=tokenizer.model_max_length,
    truncation=True,
    return_tensors="pt",
)

torch.onnx.export(
    text_encoder,
    (text_input.input_ids.to(torch.int32)),
    "encoder.onnx",
    input_names=["input_ids"],
    output_names=["last_hidden_state", "pooler_output"],
    dynamic_axes={
        "input_ids": {0: "batch", 1: "sequence"},
    },
    opset_version=14,
    do_constant_folding=True,
)
```

From the script, the outputs are `vae.onnx` and `encoder.onnx`.

> After the ONNX model exported, converting the ONNX model to the TensorRT engine serialized file. ([Details](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT/blob/release/9.2/samples/trtexec/README.md?plain=1#L22) about trtexec cli)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the ONNX model exported, convert the ONNX model to the TensorRT engine serialized file. ([Details](https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT/blob/release/9.2/samples/trtexec/README.md?plain=1#L22) about trtexec cli)
```

```bash
trtexec --onnx=vae.onnx --saveEngine=vae.plan --minShapes=latent_sample:1x4x64x64 --optShapes=latent_sample:4x4x64x64 --maxShapes=latent_sample:8x4x64x64 --fp16
```

> ### Prepare Model Repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Prepare the model repository
```

Triton Server requires a [model repository](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/user_guide/model_repository.md) to store the models, which is a local directory or remote blob store (e.g. AWS S3) containing the model configuration and the model files.
In our example, we will use a local directory as the model repository to save all the model files.

```bash
model_repo/
├── stable_diffusion
│   ├── 1
│   │   └── model.py
│   └── config.pbtxt
├── text_encoder
│   ├── 1
│   │   └── model.onnx
│   └── config.pbtxt
└── vae
    ├── 1
    │   └── model.plan
    └── config.pbtxt
```

> The model repository contains three models: `stable_diffusion`, `text_encoder` and `vae`. Each model has a `config.pbtxt` file and a model file. The `config.pbtxt` file contains the model configuration, which is used to describe the model type and input/output formats. (You can learn more about model config file [here](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/user_guide/model_configuration.md)). To get config files for our example, you can download them from [here](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Conceptual_Guide/Part_6-building_complex_pipelines/model_repository). We use `1` as the version of each model. The model files are saved in the version directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The model repository contains three models: `stable_diffusion`, `text_encoder` and `vae`. Each model has a `config.pbtxt` file and a model file. The `config.pbtxt` file contains the model configuration, which is used to describe the model type and input/output formats (you can learn more about model config file [here](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/user_guide/model_configuration.md)). To get config files for our example, you can download them from [here](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/tutorials/tree/main/Conceptual_Guide/Part_6-building_complex_pipelines/model_repository). We use `1` as the version of each model. The model files are saved in the version directory.
```

> ## Start Ray Serve with the Triton Server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Start the Triton Serve inside of a Ray Serve application
```

# Serving a Resenet model with Triton Server
This guide shows how to serve models with [NVIDIA Triton Server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server) using Ray Serve.

## Installation
Here is the Dockerfile example for installing Triton Server with Ray Serve.

## Inference Code
Before starting the triton serve to do the inference, you need to place your model into the model repository (e.g. `/tmp/models`). So that the triton serve can get access to your models.
You can follow the [guide][https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server/blob/main/docs/user_guide/model_repository.md#model-repository] to setup the model repo.

In the example, the model repo is under `/tmp/models` and the model name is `resnet50_libtorch`.

```bash
ray@ip-10-0-60-123:~/default/tutorials/RayServe/models_test$ ls /tmp/models/resnet50_libtorch/
1  config.pbtxt  resnet50_labels.txt
```

Here is the inference code example for serving a model with Triton Server.

```python
import numpy
import requests
from fastapi import FastAPI
from ray import serve
from tritonserver_api import TritonServer

# 1: Define a FastAPI app and wrap it in a deployment with a route handler.
app = FastAPI()

> @serve.deployment(route_prefix="/", ray_actor_options={"num_gpus": 1})

Reviewer: can we add some autoscaling options?

Author: added, just finish testing, it is working normally.

(serve-triton-server-integration)=

# Serving a Resenet model with Triton Server
This guide shows how to serve models with [NVIDIA Triton Server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server) using Ray Serve.

## Installation

> Here is the Dockerfile example for installing Triton Server with Ray Serve.

Author: wait for dockerfile from nvidia.
